
2026 Advanced Physics Summer Program Application2026 Advanced Physics Summer Program ApplicationWelcome to the application form for the UMD Physics 2026 Advanced Physics Summer Program. This program is held at the University of Maryland, College Park. The program is designed for students entering 9th\-12th grade this Fall 2026 with an interest in science and math. Please note this is NOT a residential program and there is NO before or after care.  
  
Program Dates: July 20th\- 31st, 2026 (2 weeks)Cost: $375  
      
Please submit any questions to [physicscamps@umd.edu](mailto:physicscamps@umd.edu) with the applicant name, program year, and program name in the subject line.[Sign in to Google](https://accounts.google.com/AccountChooser?continue=https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeh7mKsikqwzkCUjHHtr4fC6udfQgnjMgz0dAx2okH_avkNSw/viewform?usp%3Dsend_form&service=wise) to save your progress. Learn more\* Indicates required questionEmail \*Your emailFirst Name \*Your answerLast Name \*Your answerBirthday \*DateGender \*Your answerRace/EthnicityWhiteBlack or African AmericanAmerican Indian or Alaska NativeAsianNative Hawaiian or Other Pacific IslanderOther:Clear selectionStreet Address \*Your answerCity \*Your answerState \*Your answerCellphone Number \*Your answerE\-mail Address \*Please provide the e\-mail address where you would like to receive all correspondence regarding the program. Your answerSchool Name \*Your answerSchool County \*Your answerWhat grade will you be entering in the fall? \*10th11th12thOther:Below are some of the topics that we will be covering within the camp. Please indicate your current experience with each one. We will use these responses to better tailor our program to the skill level of attendees. \*No ExperienceA Little ExperienceSome ExperienceA Lot of ExperienceArduinoCoding \- PythonSolderingCADNo ExperienceA Little ExperienceSome ExperienceA Lot of ExperienceArduinoCoding \- PythonSolderingCADHow did you hear about the Advanced Physics Summer Program? \*TeacherWebsiteParentOther:Science \& Math Courses completed (include instructor name) \*Your answerHave you attended any other science\-related camps? \*YesNoIf "Yes," please list the names of the programs/camps.Your answerLetter of RecommendationPlease have a science or math teacher email a letter of recommendation on your behalf to [physicscamps@umd.edu](mailto:physicscamps@umd.edu). The email subject line should include your name.Personal Essay \*Please take time to thoughtfully complete the personal essay.Your personal essay is important to the admission process. Your essay should be between 250 \- 350 words. Include the following: (1\) describe why you would like to participate in our program, (2\) tell us about yourself, and (3\) add anything else you would like us to know related to your interests in science and future career goals.Your answerParent/Guardian SectionParent(s)/Guardian(s) must complete this section of the application.Parent/Guardian Name \*Your answerParent/Guardian Email \*Your answerAre you affiliated with the University of Maryland? \*YesNoIf you are affiliated with UMD, please let us know your affiliation and title (staff, faculty, etc.)  
Your answerAs the parent/guardian of the applicant, I agree to the application submission for the University of Maryland's Physics Summer Program. I understand the program cost is $375\.00\.  I also understand: 1\) My child should attend the entire duration of the program, 2\) the camp is not a residential program, and 3\) I will coordinate transportation for my child to and from campus each day, 4\) Once admitted, the camp registration fee is nonrefundable. \*I have read and understand the above information.RequiredQuestions?Contact us at [physicscamps@umd.edu](mailto:physicscamps@umd.edu).  
SubmitPage 1 of 1Clear formNever submit passwords through Google Forms.This form was created inside of University of Maryland, College Park. Does this form look suspicious? [Report](https://drive.google.com/abuse?id=AKkXjoyYsTFmnFGIBJsATHXof822Ip2J3Qi2Ll0aLSQrU-_2i2h6w9e-PRgeDxthZPolqv5E8TDcSiXY8OtOZy0:0&docurl=https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeh7mKsikqwzkCUjHHtr4fC6udfQgnjMgz0dAx2okH_avkNSw/viewform?usp%3Dsend_form)

[Forms](//www.google.com/forms/about/?utm_source=product&utm_medium=forms_logo&utm_campaign=forms)   Help and feedback * Help Forms improve
* Report
