Tuition and Aid | Summer Session

[Skip Navigation](#main-site-content)

Search Text

Select Search Scope

Search This Site

Just This Site

Search SBU Website

SBU Website

Search

* [Winter Session](https://www.stonybrook.edu/commcms/winter/)
* [Office of the Registrar](https://www.stonybrook.edu/registrar)
* [SOLAR](http://it.stonybrook.edu/services/solar/)
* Search

Search Text

Search
Site

Site

[Summer Session](https://www.stonybrook.edu/commcms/summer)

* [Home](/commcms/summer/index.php)
* [Courses](/summer-session/courses/)
* [Calendar](https://www.stonybrook.edu/commcms/summer/calendar/index.php)
* [Tuition & Aid](/commcms/summer/tuition-and-aid.php)
* [Student Life](/commcms/summer/student-life.php)
* [Resources](/commcms/summer/resources.php)
* [Departmental Contacts](/commcms/summer/contact.php)

* [Current Students](/commcms/summer/audience/current-students.php) * [Incoming Students](/commcms/summer/audience/incoming-students.php) * [High School Programs](/commcms/summer/audience/high-school-students.php) * [Visiting Students](/commcms/summer/audience/visiting-students.php) * [International Students](/commcms/summer/audience/international-students.php) * [Graduate Programs](/commcms/summer/audience/adults-and-professionals.php)    Tuition and Aid | | | | | |

Billing Statements Your billing statement will be available in SOLAR under the STUDENT FINANCIAL SERVICES menu. No paper billing statements will be printed or mailed. All billing communication will be done via email and SOLAR. Please ensure that a valid email address exists on your student record. All charges are subject to change by official action of the SUNY Board of Trustees. College, student activity, and comprehensive fees are mandatory for all Summer Sessions students. Summer 2025 Tuition Rates Summer enrollment is very affordable! Stony Brook’s tuition is a fraction of the cost of private universities, and financial aid is available to those who qualify. Tuition: Per Credit    |  | New York State Resident | Out of State | | --- | --- | --- | | Undergraduate | $295.00 | $1,203.00 | | Graduate\*\* | $471.00 | $1,097.00 | | Graduate MBA students | $635.00 | $1,120.00 | | Physical Therapy Grad Students | $1,016.00 | $1,343.00 | | Doctor of Nursing Practice | $1,047.00 | $1,394.00 | | Social Work | $545.00 | $963.00 | | Physician Assistant | $676.00 | $1,477.00 | | Masters of Health Administration | $582.00 | $1,020.00 | | Doctor of Occupational Therapy | $1,016.00 | $1,279.00 |   *Tuition and fees are subject to change without notice.*  \*\* Tuition is charged at the level of matriculation. A matriculated graduate student taking undergraduate courses will be charged at the GRADUATE tuition rate. Fee Rates  |  |  | | --- | --- | | Undergraduate Activity Fee | $7.00 Per Session | | Graduate Activity Fee | $5.00 Per Session | | Counseling and Health Fee | $66.00 per Session | | Technology Fee | $124.00 per Session | | College Fee | $11.45 per Credit | | Academic Excellence Fee | $47.00 per Session | | Recreation Fee | $5.50 (online only) $43.75 (in-person) per session | | Lifetime Career Development Fee | $8.25 per Session | | Transportation Fee | $51.75 per Session |   *Tuition and fees are subject to change without notice.*  \*\* Tuition is charged at the level of matriculation. A matriculated graduate student taking undergraduate courses will be charged at the GRADUATE tuition rate. Tuition BreakdownNYS Resident Undergraduate    | Credit Hours | 3cr | 4cr | | --- | --- | --- | | Tuition | $885 | $1,180 | | Undergraduate Activity Fee | $7.00 | $7.00 | | College | $34.35 | $45.80 | | Technology | $124.00 | $124.00 | | Academic Excellence | $47.00 | $47.00 | | Recreation Center/ Facilities | $43.75 | $43.75 | | Counseling and Health Fee | $66.00 | $66.00 | | Lifetime Career Development Fee | $8.25 | $8.25 | | Transportation Fee | $51.75 | $51.75 | | **Total** | $1,267.10 | $1,573.55 |   *Tuition and fees are subject to change without notice.* NYS Resident Graduate    | Credit Hours | 3cr | 4cr | | --- | --- | --- | | Tuition | $1,413.00 | $1,884.00 | | Activity | $5.00 | $5.00 | | College | $34.35 | $45.80 | | Technology | $124.00 | $124.00 | | Academic Excellence | $47.00 | $47.00 | | Counseling and Health Fee | $66.00 | $66.00 | | Lifetime Career Development Fee | $8.25 | $8.25 | | Transportation Fee | $51.75 | $51.75 | | **Total** | $1,749.35 | $2,231.80 |   *Tuition and fees are subject to change without notice.* Summer Fees Select an item below to view more information. For dates and deadlines, [view the Summer Academic Calendar.](/summer-session/calendar/)   * College Fee ($11.45 per credit) State University of New York (SUNY) Board of Trustees policy requires collection of   the College Fee from all students. Proceeds from the fee are used to supplement campus   operations.  The College Fee is assessed to all students, and is prorated for part time students.   For more information, [see State University of New York (SUNY) Policy 7800](http://www.suny.edu/sunypp/documents.cfm?doc_id=395). * Student Activity Fee Undergraduates: $7.00 per session          Graduates: $5.00 per session * Academic Excellence Fee ($47.00 per session) The SUNY Board of Trustees authorized the implementation of the Academic Excellence   and Success Fee at University Centers, including Stony Brook, to provide financial   resources necessary for maintaining quality academic and student success programs   and to support NYSUNY2020  The Academic Excellence and Success Fee is assessed to undergraduate, graduate, and   professional degree students. For more information, [see State University of New York (SUNY) Policy 7804](http://www.suny.edu/sunypp/documents.cfm?doc_id=398). * Campus Recreation Facilities Fee $5.50 (online only) $43.75 (in-person) per session,   undergraduates only) The Campus Recreation Center is devoted to the health and wellness of Stony Brook   students, faculty and staff and has become the center of activity on campus, averaging   more than 2,000 users daily. The Recreation Facilites Fee is assessed only to undergraduate   students.  Graduate students who would like to utilize the recreation facility may opt in, and   will be charged accordingly. Faculty and Staff members may also take advantage of   an annual membership option. [Read more about the Campus Recreation Center/Fields Facilites Fee](https://studentaffairs.stonybrook.edu/_archive/rec/facilities/recreation-facilities-fee.html). * Counseling and Health Fee ($66.00 per session) The Counseling and Health Fee is assessed to all students.  Revenue from this fee   is directed to health counseling and prevention services and related programs. The   fee funds the operation of the Student Health Services Office.[Read more about the Student Health Services/Infirmary Fee.](/commcms/bursar/tuition/_documents/1198/Student%20Health%20and%20Counseling-Pie%20Chart_2019-20.pdf)  Students enrolled in zero credit courses (for example, Summer 800 level Research)   will be charged the full summer Student Health Services fee - $132.00 total. ($66.00   each session). * Technology Fee ($124.00 per session) Revenue generated from the Technology Fee is used to address specific technology needs   such as computing and information technology (i.e., smart classrooms, distance learning   offerings, high speed internet connection), library automation, library electronic   databases, remote network access, public computing sites, student services automation   (i.e., registration, billing), and other administrative systems. This fee is charged   to all students.  More information regarding this fee is provided on the [Teaching, Learning and Technology website](http://it.stonybrook.edu/it-guides/students/tech-fee). * Lifetime Career Development Fee ($8.25 per session) Stony Brook University is well known for its ability to help propel student socio-economic   advancement, which is thanks, in large part, to a very active and engaged Career Center   team and Alumni network. This undergraduate and graduate fee supports the lifetime   career development of all students.  This includes access to more diverse experiential   learning opportunities and career mentors, improved student career readiness, and   greater student-alumni engagement offered through the Career Center and the Office   of Alumni Relations.   For additional information click [here](/commcms/career-center/about/broad_based_fee.php). * Transportation Fee ($51.75 per session) SBU Transportation continues to improve transportation services in numerous ways   by maintaining and operating a bus fleet, enhancing transit facilities, and providing   transportation services to local shopping via the Suffolk Transit Connection.  The Transportation Fee ensures that services are available for students when needed   without interruption or reduction.  Students enrolled in non-remote courses or who are living on campus for the summer   sessions will be billed the transportation fee. * Late Payment Fee Late payment fees will total $80 per session. * Late Registration Fee A late registration fee ($50 per session) will be assessed to all accounts where the   initial enrollment is after the session start date.  Students enrolling in Summer Session 1 or Extended Session for the first time on or   after the registration deadline will be charged a $50 late registration fee. Payment   of tuition and Fees is due immediately for classes added late.  Students enrolling in Summer Session 2 for the first time on or after the registration   deadline will also be charged a $50 late registration fee.  [View the Academic Calendar for dates and deadlines.](/summer-session/calendar/) * Add Drop Fee The add/drop fee is $20 for each approved petition. * Returned Check Fee Returned checks will be subject to a $35 bank service charge and an additional late   payment fee. * Transcript Fee $10.00 per copy. * Visiting Student Fee A $25 Visiting Student Fee will be charged the first day of classes. * International Student Health Insurance Non-immigrant international students are required to pay a mandatory health insurance   fee prior to registering for summer classes. For additional information, please contact   the Student Health Insurance Office at (631) 632-6054.   *Fees are subject to change without notice.* Payment Policies and ProceduresSummer 1 Payments are Due June 15th Summer 2 Payments are Due July 15thSummer Session 1 and Extended Session Payment for Summer Session 1 and Extended Session is due in full by June 15th, 2025. Summer Session 1 includes all O, C, Z, and MM1 and MM2 Mod Sessions. A $40 late payment fee will be posted to all Summer Session I or Extended accounts that remain unpaid after June 15th, 2025.  An additional $40 late payment fee will be added to all Session I and Extended Session accounts that remain unpaid after July 15th, 2025. Summer Session 2 Payment for Summer Session 2 is due in full by July 15th, 2025. Summer Session 2 includes all D, 9, M, MM and MM3 Mod Sessions. A $40 late payment fee will be posted to all Summer Session II accounts that remain unpaid after July 15th, 2025.  An additional $40 late payment fee will added to all Session II accounts that remain unpaid after August 15, 2025. How to Pay The billing statement will be posted in SOLAR. You may pay by credit card or electronic check in SOLAR or mail a check to:  Student Financial Services  Stony Brook University PO Box 619 Stony Brook, NY 11790-0619  You may pay as follows:   * SOLAR System: Visa, MasterCard, Discover, American Express or check. * In person at the Student Financial Services Office Stony Brook Union, Suite 207: check,   credit card.  \*\*\*We do not accept cash. * Please write your university ID number on check payments. * By mail to: Stony Brook University, P.O Box 619, Stony Brook, NY 11790-0169. Please   write student ID number on the check  Unpaid Summer Charges All accounts must be paid in full to secure the release of transcripts, diploma (or certificate of completion); to participate in room selection and for advance registration. Past-due accounts may be transferred to a collection agency or to the New York State Attorney General's Office for collection. Accounts submitted to collections will be subject to additional fees, fines, and interest.  If you decide not to attend summer sessions class(es), you must **OFFICIALLY withdraw from the session/course(s)**. Late withdrawals will incur tuition and fees liability. **The University will not cancel your classes if you decide not to attend, or if you do not pay your summer tuition and fees bill.** Refund Policies and Procedures Requests for Refunds due to overpayments or withdrawals must be in writing to the Student Accounts Office.  Approved academic petitions to withdraw from courses will not automatically result in removal or adjustment of charges. A financial petition requesting consideration to remove tuition and fee liability must be submitted to the Office of Student Accounts at the address below.  No refunds will be considered for students who have completed more than one-half of a session or term. Petitions must be received within three months after the end of the session in which the charges were incurred.  **All refund requests must be submitted in writing to:** Student Financial Services Stony Brook Union, Suite 207 Stony Brook University Stony Brook, NY 11794-3222 StudentBilling@stonybrook.edu Fax (631) 632-1308 Fee Refunds  * Housing Fee: Prorated by the week. * College Fee, Late Registration Fee, and Lost ID Card Fee: Not refundable.  Summer Tuition Refund & Liability Schedule **Summer 2025  Session Tuition and Fee Liability Please Note: This is not a comprehensive list of all Summer Sessions.  The tuition and fee liability dates may not be listed for your specific session.  Please email [studentbilling@stonybrook.edu](mailto:studentbilling@stonybrook.edu) for liability dates for your sessions if they are not listed below.**   | Session | 1 | 1EXT | 2 | 2EXT | GRAD ONLINE | | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | | Start Date | 27-MAY | 27-MAY | 7-JULY | 23-JUNE | 27-MAY | | End Date | 5-JULY | 18-JULY | 16-AUGUST | 16-AUGUST | 3-AUGUST | | Length | 6 WEEK | 8 WEEK | 6 WEEK | 8 WEEK | 10 WEEK | | 0% | 5/27 - 6/2 | 5/27 - 6/2 | 7/7 - 7/13 | 6/23 - 6/29 | 5/27 - 6/2 | | 50% |  |  |  |  | 6/3 - 6/9 | | 60% |  | 6/3 - 6/9 |  | 6/30- 7/6 |  | | 70% | 6/3 - 6/9 |  | 7/14 - 7/20 |  | 6/10 - 6/16 | | 80% |  | 6/10 - 6/16 |  | 7/7 - 7/13 |  | | **100%** | **10-JUNE** | **17-JUNE** | **21-JULY** | **14-JULY** | **17-JUNE** |    Financial Aid Financial Aid programs available for Summer Sessions:   * Financial Aid programs available for Summer Sessions * Federal Stafford Loan Subsidized * Federal Stafford Loan Unsubsidized * PLUS Loan (Parent Loan for Undergraduate Students) * Tuition Assistance Program (TAP) * Federal Work Study * Pell Grant  Summer Eligibility Requirements Only matriculated Stony Brook students may receive summer financial aid awards. Visiting students should check with the institution they attend during the academic year. Applicants for TAP, Stafford Loans, and PLUS Loans must enroll in summer session classes for a minimum of six (6) units. Undergraduate Federal Work Study applicants must be enrolled. Advanced graduate students engaged in full-time research must enroll in the appropriate course.  Since TAP, Pell Grant, and the Stafford Loan programs have award limits which may not be exceeded, applicants should check with the Office of Financial and Scholarship Services to understand how summer awards may affect future eligibility.  A recent Pell Grant regulation change may allow you to receive an extra Pell payment if you enroll in summer courses. Anticipated Aid Awards that have been accepted but have not yet been disbursed to your University account are considered “anticipated aid.” Award estimates, stipends, Work-Study, and student reported awards are not recorded as anticipated aid. In addition, anticipated aid that is not disbursed after a period of time will expire and will no longer be taken into account against any outstanding University charges. Please note that if your aid has expired, it can still be disbursed to your account once the disbursement hold is resolved. To avoid potential late fees and registration blocks, it is important to promptly follow up on all required documents. Summer TAP for Matriculated Undergraduates Students may be eligible to receive TAP (Tuition Assistance Program) to assist with tuition costs associated with summer study.   * You must have received your first TAP award in the 2006-2007 academic year or  * You must have been enrolled full time in the prior spring * You must have earned a combined total of 24 credits in the prior two semesters; these   credits must have been earned at Stony Brook University (transfer credits do not apply). * You must meet all of the Satisfactory Academic Progress Guidelines as defined by NY   State Higher Education Services  * You must have not exhausted your TAP eligibility   + Undergraduate students are eligible to receive 8 full time TAP awards   + Students enrolled in the Educational Opportunity Program are eligible to receive 10     full time TAP    For more information, contact the [Office of Student Financial Aid Services](/finaid):  Stony Brook Union, Second Floor Telephone: (631) 632-6840 Fax: (631) 632-9525 Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act Federal law regulates the confidentiality of and access to student records maintained by the University (Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act). For a more complete description of your rights and responsibilities under this law, please refer to the Undergraduate Bulletin, Fall or Spring Class Schedule, or Student Handbook. All of these are available at Stony Brook University's [Registrar's website](/registrar/). | | | | | |

Office of the RegistrarStony Brook Union, Suite 206Stony Brook, New York 11794-3221

Phone: (631) 632-6175

[registrar\_office@stonybrook.edu](mailto:registrar_office@stonybrook.edu)

[Report an accessibility barrier](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScW_Uc4kfzvlKlgwoJCHSJ2EG_6bd-LjcHowxnNGKV0309uxg/viewform?gxids=7628 )

[©Admin Login](http://a.cms.omniupdate.com/10?skin=oucampus&account=suny-stonybrook&site=sbcms&action=de&path=/summer/tuition-and-aid.pcf)2025[Stony Brook University](https://www.stonybrook.edu/)